docs/testing/user/userguide/opnfv_yardstick_tc050.rst, before:

.. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
.. License.
.. http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0
.. (c) OPNFV, Yin Kanglin and others.
.. 14_ykl@tongji.edu.cn

*************************************
Yardstick Test Case Description TC050
*************************************

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|OpenStack Controller Node Network High Availability                          |
|                                                                             |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|test case id  | OPNFV_YARDSTICK_TC050: OpenStack Controller Node Network     |
|              | High Availability                                            |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|test purpose  | This test case will verify the high availability of control  |
|              | node. When one of the controller failed to connect the       |
|              | network, which breaks down the Openstack services on this    |
|              | node. These Openstack service should able to be accessed by  |
|              | other controller nodes, and the services on failed           |
|              | controller node should be isolated.                          |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|test method   | This test case turns off the network interfaces of a         |
|              | specified control node, then checks whether all services     |
|              | provided by the control node are OK with some monitor tools. |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|attackers     | In this test case, an attacker called "close-interface" is   |
|              | needed. This attacker includes three parameters:             |
|              | 1) fault_type: which is used for finding the attacker's      |
|              | scripts. It should be always set to "close-interface" in     |
|              | this test case.                                              |
|              | 2) host: which is the name of a control node being attacked. |
|              | 3) interface: the network interface to be turned off.        |
|              |                                                              |
|              | There are four instance of the "close-interface" monitor:    |
|              | attacker1(for public netork):                                |
|              | -fault_type: "close-interface"                               |
|              | -host: node1                                                 |
|              | -interface: "br-ex"                                          |
|              | attacker2(for management netork):                            |
|              | -fault_type: "close-interface"                               |
|              | -host: node1                                                 |
|              | -interface: "br-mgmt"                                        |
|              | attacker3(for storage netork):                               |
|              | -fault_type: "close-interface"                               |
|              | -host: node1                                                 |
|              | -interface: "br-storage"                                     |
|              | attacker4(for private netork):                               |
|              | -fault_type: "close-interface"                               |
|              | -host: node1                                                 |
|              | -interface: "br-mesh"                                        |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|monitors      | In this test case, the monitor named "openstack-cmd" is      |
|              | needed. The monitor needs needs two parameters:              |
|              | 1) monitor_type: which is used for finding the monitor class |
|              | and related scritps. It should be always set to              |
|              | "openstack-cmd" for this monitor.                            |
|              | 2) command_name: which is the command name used for request  |
|              |                                                              |
|              | There are four instance of the "openstack-cmd" monitor:      |
|              | monitor1:                                                    |
|              | -monitor_type: "openstack-cmd"                               |
|              | -command_name: "nova image-list"                             |
|              | monitor2:                                                    |
|              | -monitor_type: "openstack-cmd"                               |
|              | -command_name: "neutron router-list"                         |
|              | monitor3:                                                    |
|              | -monitor_type: "openstack-cmd"                               |
|              | -command_name: "heat stack-list"                             |
|              | monitor4:                                                    |
|              | -monitor_type: "openstack-cmd"                               |
|              | -command_name: "cinder list"                                 |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|metrics       | In this test case, there is one metric:                      |
|              | 1)service_outage_time: which indicates the maximum outage    |
|              | time (seconds) of the specified Openstack command request.   |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|test tool     | Developed by the project. Please see folder:                 |
|              | "yardstick/benchmark/scenarios/availability/ha_tools"        |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|references    | ETSI NFV REL001                                              |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|configuration | This test case needs two configuration files:                |
|              | 1) test case file: opnfv_yardstick_tc050.yaml                |
|              | -Attackers: see above "attackers" discription                |
|              | -waiting_time: which is the time (seconds) from the process  |
|              | being killed to stoping monitors the monitors                |
|              | -Monitors: see above "monitors" discription                  |
|              | -SLA: see above "metrics" discription                        |
|              |                                                              |
|              | 2)POD file: pod.yaml                                         |
|              | The POD configuration should record on pod.yaml first.       |
|              | the "host" item in this test case will use the node name in  |
|              | the pod.yaml.                                                |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|test sequence | description and expected result                              |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|step 1        | start monitors:                                              |
|              | each monitor will run with independently process             |
|              |                                                              |
|              | Result: The monitor info will be collected.                  |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|step 2        | do attacker: connect the host through SSH, and then execute  |
|              | the turnoff network interface script with param value        |
|              | specified by  "interface".                                   |
|              |                                                              |
|              | Result: Network interfaces will be turned down.              |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|step 3        | stop monitors after a period of time specified by            |
|              | "waiting_time"                                               |
|              |                                                              |
|              | Result: The monitor info will be aggregated.                 |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|step 4        | verify the SLA                                               |
|              |                                                              |
|              | Result: The test case is passed or not.                      |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|post-action   | It is the action when the test cases exist. It turns up the  |
|              | network interface of the control node if it is not turned    |
|              | up.                                                          |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|test verdict  | Fails only if SLA is not passed, or if there is a test case  |
|              | execution problem.                                           |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

Bugfix: interface down HA tc050 attack and monitor logistic wrong
1. simplify the attack to be one interface
2. move monitor step before attack
3. update rst doc to match

JIRA: YARDSTICK-1120

Change-Id: Icfa21d58e7ccdbeaca8a9a1a3098cceb21c981c3
Signed-off-by: rexlee8776 <limingjiang@huawei.com>
(cherry picked from commit af7f0bea3a0d24bdf084622acc9932ccd261e42e)

docs/testing/user/userguide/opnfv_yardstick_tc050.rst, after:

.. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
.. License.
.. http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0
.. (c) OPNFV, Yin Kanglin and others.
.. 14_ykl@tongji.edu.cn

*************************************
Yardstick Test Case Description TC050
*************************************

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|OpenStack Controller Node Network High Availability                          |
|                                                                             |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|test case id  | OPNFV_YARDSTICK_TC050: OpenStack Controller Node Network     |
|              | High Availability                                            |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|test purpose  | This test case will verify the high availability of control  |
|              | node. When one of the controller failed to connect the       |
|              | network, which breaks down the Openstack services on this    |
|              | node. These Openstack service should able to be accessed by  |
|              | other controller nodes, and the services on failed           |
|              | controller node should be isolated.                          |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|test method   | This test case turns off the network interfaces of a         |
|              | specified control node, then checks whether all services     |
|              | provided by the control node are OK with some monitor tools. |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|attackers     | In this test case, an attacker called "close-interface" is   |
|              | needed. This attacker includes three parameters:             |
|              | 1) fault_type: which is used for finding the attacker's      |
|              | scripts. It should be always set to "close-interface" in     |
|              | this test case.                                              |
|              | 2) host: which is the name of a control node being attacked. |
|              | 3) interface: the network interface to be turned off.        |
|              |                                                              |
|              | The interface to be closed by the attacker can be set by the |
|              | variable of "{{ interface_name }}"                           |
|              |                                                              |
|              | attackers:                                                   |
|              |   -                                                          |
|              |     fault_type: "general-attacker"                           |
|              |     host: {{ attack_host }}                                  |
|              |     key: "close-br-public"                                   |
|              |     attack_key: "close-interface"                            |
|              |     action_parameter:                                        |
|              |       interface: {{ interface_name }}                        |
|              |     rollback_parameter:                                      |
|              |       interface: {{ interface_name }}                        |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|monitors      | In this test case, the monitor named "openstack-cmd" is      |
|              | needed. The monitor needs needs two parameters:              |
|              | 1) monitor_type: which is used for finding the monitor class |
|              | and related scritps. It should be always set to              |
|              | "openstack-cmd" for this monitor.                            |
|              | 2) command_name: which is the command name used for request  |
|              |                                                              |
|              | There are four instance of the "openstack-cmd" monitor:      |
|              | monitor1:                                                    |
|              |     - monitor_type: "openstack-cmd"                          |
|              |     - command_name: "nova image-list"                        |
|              | monitor2:                                                    |
|              |     - monitor_type: "openstack-cmd"                          |
|              |     - command_name: "neutron router-list"                    |
|              | monitor3:                                                    |
|              |     - monitor_type: "openstack-cmd"                          |
|              |     - command_name: "heat stack-list"                        |
|              | monitor4:                                                    |
|              |     - monitor_type: "openstack-cmd"                          |
|              |     - command_name: "cinder list"                            |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|metrics       | In this test case, there is one metric:                      |
|              | 1)service_outage_time: which indicates the maximum outage    |
|              | time (seconds) of the specified Openstack command request.   |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|test tool     | Developed by the project. Please see folder:                 |
|              | "yardstick/benchmark/scenarios/availability/ha_tools"        |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|references    | ETSI NFV REL001                                              |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|configuration | This test case needs two configuration files:                |
|              | 1) test case file: opnfv_yardstick_tc050.yaml                |
|              | -Attackers: see above "attackers" discription                |
|              | -waiting_time: which is the time (seconds) from the process  |
|              | being killed to stoping monitors the monitors                |
|              | -Monitors: see above "monitors" discription                  |
|              | -SLA: see above "metrics" discription                        |
|              |                                                              |
|              | 2)POD file: pod.yaml                                         |
|              | The POD configuration should record on pod.yaml first.       |
|              | the "host" item in this test case will use the node name in  |
|              | the pod.yaml.                                                |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|test sequence | description and expected result                              |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|step 1        | start monitors:                                              |
|              | each monitor will run with independently process             |
|              |                                                              |
|              | Result: The monitor info will be collected.                  |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|step 2        | do attacker: connect the host through SSH, and then execute  |
|              | the turnoff network interface script with param value        |
|              | specified by "{{ interface_name }}".                         |
|              |                                                              |
|              | Result: The specified network interface will be down.        |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|step 3        | stop monitors after a period of time specified by            |
|              | "waiting_time"                                               |
|              |                                                              |
|              | Result: The monitor info will be aggregated.                 |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|step 4        | verify the SLA                                               |
|              |                                                              |
|              | Result: The test case is passed or not.                      |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|post-action   | It is the action when the test cases exist. It turns up the  |
|              | network interface of the control node if it is not turned    |
|              | up.                                                          |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|test verdict  | Fails only if SLA is not passed, or if there is a test case  |
|              | execution problem.                                           |
|              |                                                              |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
